Karen, Hunter, and Lucas

Background: 

In 2016, a report entitled “Opportunity Youth in the Road Map Project Region,” wrote that nearly 19,000 youths, individuals between the age of 16-24, are not employed nor are they working in South King County. Many of these youths are single mothers, individuals who have had issues with the law, and individuals who come from disadvantaged communities. The Project Road Map was formed to help identify these youths and help them achieve some type of education and/or career. While the program has proven to be very successful for those youths who have participated, a large number of youths slip through the cracks for the simple fact no one had reached out to them. The first step into rectifying this problem is identifying these Opportunity Youths:
What we did:
By analyzing ACS PUMs data (American Community Survey Public Use MicroData) provided by the US Censor Bureau, we were able to update the data provided by Project Road Map regarding the percentages of students who are currently opportunity youth in the South King County Area. We separated this data by educational background and sorted the information by age, educational background and whether or not the youths are working. From this, we were able to update the number of opportunity youth as a percentage of the total youth living in the South King County. 
Our results:
While the vast majority of the numbers remained more or less constant (fluctuation of less than 2%) from when the data was first taken to the new data, there was a significant uptake in the number of youth opportunity who don’t have college degrees and a significant drop in the number of youth who either attended some college or received a degree. Though this seems promising at first glance, we cannot make any definitive conclusions because this percent change is within an already biased group - opportunity youth - and thus we don’t know if the reason for this change is due to more youths finding work now after receiving their degree or if they are under valuing the degree as a whole. Furthermore, due to ambiguities in semantics, we had trouble precisely defining what constituted opportunity youth which could greatly affect our data. 
Next Steps:
It would be interesting to see how changing the parameters  affected the total number of opportunity youths. This could be used to establish some type of error in our report. Furthermore, it would also be interesting to investigate what the results are if we increment all the ages by one. This would allow us to track how these groups are doing. 